---
slug: '/2025/01/05'
---

# 2025-01-05

## [Researchers design wearable tech that can sense glucose levels more accurately](https://uwaterloo.ca/news/media/no-more-needles-tracking-blood-sugar-your-wrist)

- Researchers at the University of Waterloo have created a wearable device that uses radar technology to monitor glucose levels non-invasively, removing the need for needles.
- The device, led by Dr. George Shaker, incorporates a radar chip, a meta-surface for enhanced signal accuracy, and AI algorithms for precise glucose readings.
- Currently USB-powered, the device aims to become battery-operated for improved portability and may eventually monitor additional health metrics, with efforts underway to commercialize the technology.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42599189)

- Researchers have created wearable technology for non-invasive glucose monitoring, offering an alternative to finger pricking and Continuous Glucose Monitors (CGMs).
- The technology aims to provide accurate glucose readings without direct contact with the bloodstream, which could be significant for clinical applications.
- While promising, there is skepticism about its accuracy compared to existing CGMs, and further data and clinical trials are needed to confirm its effectiveness.

## [The day I taught AI to read code like a Senior Developer](https://nmn.gl/blog/ai-senior-developer)

- The AI was initially challenged with analyzing React codebases, approaching them like a novice developer. - By emulating senior developers' strategies, such as focusing on core files and grouping changes by feature, the AI's code analysis improved significantly. - The focus is on enhancing code understanding rather than generation, with future plans to identify technical debt and comprehend team conventions.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42601847)

- The article explores the challenges of training AI to read and analyze code with the proficiency of a senior developer, noting the difficulty in achieving consistent and accurate results.
- It stresses the importance of providing context and structuring inputs to enhance AI performance in code analysis, while acknowledging skepticism about AI's current capabilities.
- The discussion highlights the need for further experimentation and evaluation to validate AI's performance and considers the broader implications and potential advancements of AI in software development.

## [Web page annoyances that I don't inflict on you here](http://rachelbythebay.com/w/2025/01/04/cruft/)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42599102)

- The author avoids using certain web features like sticky bars, forced SSL/TLS, pop-ups, and unnecessary tracking to enhance user experience.
- There is an ongoing debate about the necessity of HTTPS for security versus its compatibility issues with older browsers.
- The discussion highlights the challenge of balancing user experience with modern web practices.

## [How Nat Traversal Works (2020)](https://tailscale.com/blog/how-nat-traversal-works)

- NAT traversal enables direct device connections despite the presence of Network Address Translators (NATs) and firewalls, using UDP-based protocols and direct socket control.
- Techniques such as STUN (Session Traversal Utilities for NAT) help in discovering public IP addresses, while relays like TURN (Traversal Using Relays around NAT) or Tailscale's DERP are used for more challenging NATs.
- The ICE (Interactive Connectivity Establishment) protocol optimizes connection paths by evaluating all possible options and selecting the most efficient one, ensuring robust NAT traversal with end-to-end encryption and authentication.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42600846)

- The article explores NAT (Network Address Translation) traversal, emphasizing the differences between TCP (Transmission Control Protocol) and UDP (User Datagram Protocol) hole punching, noting TCP's slightly higher complexity.
- It challenges the perception of NAT as a security feature and discusses Tailscale's method for NAT traversal, raising concerns about depending solely on software ACLs (Access Control Lists) for security.
- The discussion highlights the importance of secure endpoints and critiques the limitations of conventional network security strategies in the context of NAT traversal.

## [Guten: A Tiny Newspaper Printer](https://amanvir.com/guten)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42599599)

- Guten is a small-scale newspaper printer project designed to minimize screen time by delivering news in printed form. - Discussions around the project include concerns about the BPA content in thermal paper and suggestions for using BPA-free alternatives or different printing technologies like impact or dot-matrix printers. - Comparisons are made to the discontinued Little Printer, with recommendations for enhancing Guten's developer-friendliness and customization options, alongside considerations of environmental and health impacts of thermal paper.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Researchers design wearable tech that can sense glucose levels more accurately" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Researchers%20design%20wearable%20tech%20that%20can%20sense%20glucose%20levels%20more%20accurately&subheading=Sunday%2C%20January%205%2C%202025%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
