---
slug: '/2024/12/03'
---

# 2024-12-03

## [Facebook's Little Red Book](https://www.map.cv/blog/redbook)

- In 2012, Facebook created a "Little Red Book" to maintain its identity and focus as it expanded to a billion users, emphasizing principles like breaking things, thinking big, and moving fast.
- The book, designed by Ben Barry, served as a manifesto to preserve Facebook's ethos during rapid growth, showcasing the importance of storytelling in scaling company culture.
- A high-quality digital version of this rare book has been created to illustrate how successful companies maintain their identity and culture.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42299863)

- Facebook's "Little Red Book" was an employee guide from 2012, designed to inspire a sense of mission and tech optimism.
- The guide has faced criticism for its naivety and lack of self-awareness, especially in light of Facebook's later controversies involving data privacy and misinformation.
- The book is viewed as a relic from a more hopeful era in tech, contrasting with the current complex realities of social media.

## [South Korean president declares emergency martial law](https://apnews.com/article/south-korea-yoon-martial-law-997c22ac93f6a9bece68454597e577c1)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42306020)

- South Korean President Yoon Suk Yeol declared emergency martial law, but the National Assembly voted to demand its lifting, rendering the declaration void.
- The military insists martial law will continue until the president officially ends it, leading to debates about constitutional obligations and potential impeachment.
- The declaration is compared to a coup attempt, raising concerns about the military's role and the president's motives, including avoiding scandal investigations.

## [Lessons I learned working at an art gallery](https://www.henrikkarlsson.xyz/p/art-gallery)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42302784)

- The text emphasizes the subjective nature of art evaluation and the significance of networking in an artist's career success.- It discusses the challenges in predicting successful art exhibitions and the role of early professional connections.- The conversation extends to the complexities of defining "great art," the influence of commercial success, and the importance of communication in professional settings.

## [Y Combinator and Power in Silicon Valley](https://commoncog.com/c/cases/y-combinator-power/)

- In 2010, AdGrok, a small startup, faced a lawsuit from their former employer, Adchemy, which threatened their financial stability.- Y Combinator, a startup accelerator backing AdGrok, played a pivotal role in resolving the lawsuit by leveraging its influence with Adchemy's investors and potential business partners.- Despite winning the lawsuit, the ordeal led to AdGrok's sale to Twitter in 2011, while Adchemy was later sold to Walmart Labs in a fire-sale acquisition.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42303798)

- Y Combinator (YC) is a major player in Silicon Valley, influencing which startups gain traction post-accelerator.- Critics suggest YC has adopted a "spray and pray" strategy, prioritizing the number of startups over selectivity and quality.- The debate centers on whether YC should scale its operations or concentrate on fewer, high-quality startups, reflecting broader complexities in startup culture and investment strategies.

## [8 months of OCaml after 8 years of Haskell in production (2023)](https://chshersh.com/blog/2023-12-16-8-months-of-ocaml-after-8-years-of-haskell.html)

- The author compares Haskell and OCaml based on their experience, highlighting that Haskell has more features and packages, but OCaml's simplicity enhances productivity.- Haskell's tooling is powerful yet inconsistent, while OCaml's tooling is straightforward and reliable, with succinct compiler messages.- Both languages are suitable for industrial use, but the author prefers OCaml for its focus on development rather than overthinking, despite Haskell's more comprehensive documentation.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42302426)

- The author compares their experiences with Haskell and OCaml, highlighting Haskell's elegant but complex syntax and inconsistent tooling, particularly with specific GHC (Glasgow Haskell Compiler) versions.- OCaml is praised for its straightforwardness, simpler module system, faster compiler, and practicality in production, with fewer language extensions and a more manageable learning curve.- The author emphasizes the significance of a robust standard library for the success of a programming language.

## [Twice-Yearly HIV Shot Shows 100% Effectiveness in Women](https://apnews.com/article/hiv-infections-aids-prevention-shot-02606f7d7892f0baf55bd0a0ff2ba3de)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42302963)

- A new twice-yearly HIV shot has demonstrated 100% effectiveness in women, providing a promising alternative to daily pills or monthly shots.
- This development is crucial for individuals who find it challenging to adhere to daily medication regimens, potentially simplifying HIV prevention efforts.
- Despite its promise, the cost of the injectable form is a concern, though Gilead plans to offer more affordable, generic versions in 120 lower-income countries, potentially impacting public health in high HIV prevalence regions.

## [Blizzard's pulling of Warcraft I and II tests GOG's new Preservation Program](https://arstechnica.com/gaming/2024/12/blizzards-pulling-of-warcraft-i-ii-tests-gogs-new-preservation-program/)

- Blizzard has requested GOG to remove the DRM-free bundle of Warcraft I & II from its store due to the release of remastered versions.
- GOG is offering the bundle at a discount before removal, ensuring that buyers will still have access and receive updates for compatibility with modern systems.
- This situation underscores the ongoing tension between remastered and original game versions, with GOG striving to preserve classic games despite publisher decisions.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42303274)

- Blizzard's removal of Warcraft I and II from GOG has drawn criticism, particularly in light of the negative feedback on the Warcraft 3 remaster.
- Fans express concern that Blizzard, post-Activision merger, is focusing more on short-term profits than on maintaining game quality.
- This situation underscores the difficulties in preserving gaming history, as highlighted by GOG's Preservation Program, and reflects the industry's trend towards profit-driven models.

## [Raspberry Pi boosts Pi 5 performance with SDRAM tuning](https://www.jeffgeerling.com/blog/2024/raspberry-pi-boosts-pi-5-performance-sdram-tuning)

- Raspberry Pi engineers have optimized SDRAM (Synchronous Dynamic Random-Access Memory) timings, resulting in a 10-20% performance boost for Pi 5 and Pi 4 at 2.4 GHz.
- Overclocking, which involves increasing the clock speed beyond the manufacturer's specifications, can achieve up to a 32% speedup, with most Pi 5s reaching 2.6-3.0 GHz.
- These performance enhancements, including NUMA (Non-Uniform Memory Access) emulation for better multi-core workload handling, may soon be available through firmware updates, potentially becoming standard features.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42303111)

- The Raspberry Pi 5 has improved performance due to SDRAM tuning, leading to discussions about using Intel N100s as an alternative.- Rising prices of Raspberry Pis make Intel N100s more attractive for those prioritizing performance per dollar, despite the Pi's advantages in GPIO (General Purpose Input/Output) and compact size.- The debate centers on the best use cases, with some favoring Raspberry Pis for simplicity and others choosing N100s for their superior power and versatility.

## [No need to email me about Cisco AnyConnect](https://daniel.haxx.se/blog/2024/12/03/no-need-to-email-me-about-cisco-anyconnect/)

- The author's name and email are included in Cisco's AnyConnect VPN client due to the use of the curl library, leading to confusion among users seeking support.- The author clarifies they are the lead developer of curl, a component used in the app, but not affiliated with Cisco or AnyConnect.- Users needing support for AnyConnect should contact Cisco directly at ac-mobile-feedback@cisco.com.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42303903)

- Daniel Stenberg, the creator of curl, frequently receives misdirected support requests for Cisco AnyConnect, illustrating issues with companies obscuring their support channels.- Users often bypass their IT departments, possibly due to previous negative interactions, leading them to seek help from unrelated parties.- The conversation also highlights the difficulties of directly contacting individuals online, primarily due to concerns about spam.

## [DuckDuckGo Donates $25k to the Perl and Raku Foundation](https://www.perl.com/article/duckduckgo-donates-25-000-to-the-perl-and-raku-foundation/)

- DuckDuckGo has donated $25,000 to The Perl and Raku Foundation (TPRF) on "Giving Tuesday," contributing to their mission of advancing Perl and Raku programming languages.
- Since 2011, DuckDuckGo has donated over $6 million to organizations that support online trust, highlighting its commitment to fostering secure and trustworthy online environments.
- The donation will aid in funding core Perl development and community projects, with TPRF expressing gratitude for DuckDuckGo's support and confidence in their mission.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42307223)

- DuckDuckGo's $25k donation to the Perl and Raku Foundation has ignited discussions on the sustainability of open-source projects.
- The decline in Perl usage and the lack of contributions from companies that rely on it highlight concerns about its future funding and tech debt issues.
- The debate on the open-source model's reliance on donations and volunteer work suggests exploring alternative funding methods.

## [Company claims 1k% price hike drove it from VMware to open source rival](https://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2024/12/company-claims-1000-percent-price-hike-drove-it-from-vmware-to-open-source-rival/)

- Beeks Group, a UK cloud operator, transitioned 20,000 virtual machines (VMs) from VMware to OpenNebula following a 1,000% price increase after Broadcom acquired VMware.
- This migration enhanced VM efficiency by 200% and allowed Beeks to allocate more resources to client workloads.
- Broadcom's acquisition of VMware has led to increased costs and reduced support, prompting many companies, including AT&T, to seek alternatives due to customer dissatisfaction.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42304955)

- A significant price increase has prompted a company to transition from VMware to an open-source alternative, reflecting a broader trend in the industry.
- The acquisition of VMware by Broadcom and subsequent pricing changes are driving businesses to explore other options, with Red Hat gaining new customers as a result.
- The industry's shift towards containerization and Kubernetes is reducing the appeal of traditional virtual machines, emphasizing the need to consider vendor lock-in and explore alternatives like Proxmox or OpenNebula.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Facebook's Little Red Book" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Facebook's%20Little%20Red%20Book&subheading=Tuesday%2C%20December%203%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
