---
slug: '/2024/12/04'
---

# 2024-12-04

## [IMG_0001](https://walzr.com/IMG_0001/)

- Between 2009 and 2012, iPhones featured a "Send to YouTube" button in the Photos app, resulting in numerous uploads with default IMG_XXXX filenames.- A bot was developed, inspired by Ben Wallace, to locate 5 million of these videos, showcasing raw and unedited moments.- The collection of videos is available for viewing, presented in a random order, offering a glimpse into unfiltered content from that era.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42314547)

- The discussion revolves around a minimalist user interface (UI) feature that displays view counts on videos, evoking nostalgia for the early internet's more personal and authentic content.- Users express mixed emotions, with some viewing personal videos as an invasion of privacy, despite their public availability, highlighting ongoing privacy concerns in internet culture.- The conversation reflects on the evolution of internet culture, contrasting the raw authenticity of past online experiences with the more sanitized and potentially privacy-invasive nature of today's web.

## [My son (9 yrs old) used plain JavaScript to make a game, and wants your feedback](https://www.armaansahni.com/game/)

- A 9-year-old has been learning coding, mastering HTML and CSS, and recently used Google Gemini to enhance his skills.- He created a game by coding HTML, CSS, and JavaScript in VSCode and used Piskel for animated graphics, with guidance from his parents and Google Gemini.- The child documented his experience in a blog post, discussing the process and receiving feedback from his programmer parents to refine his writing.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42312121)

- A 9-year-old created a game using JavaScript, showcasing skills in HTML, CSS, and game design with tools like VSCode and Piskel.- The young developer received guidance from his programmer parents and used Google Gemini to enhance his coding skills.- Community feedback has been positive, with suggestions for improvements, indicating a supportive environment for his coding journey.

## [Egoless Engineering](https://egoless.engineering)

- The talk emphasizes the importance of fostering better work environments by breaking down unnecessary role divisions and encouraging collaboration across roles.- It highlights inefficiencies caused by excessive role splitting and the misconception of "devops" practices that create barriers rather than promoting collaboration.- The speaker advocates for valuing cooperation, curiosity, and shared responsibility, suggesting that misery should not be equated with productivity.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42311069)

- Egoless Engineering focuses on collaboration, ownership, and minimizing unnecessary processes to enhance team efficiency.
- It highlights the importance of creating high-trust environments to boost productivity and warns against the inefficiencies caused by politics in modern team structures.
- Balancing autonomy with necessary oversight is crucial, especially in large projects, to foster a culture of trust and collaboration while managing human traits like ego.

## [Phoenix LiveView 1.0.0 is here](https://www.phoenixframework.org/blog/phoenix-liveview-1.0-released?release=1.0)

- Phoenix LiveView 1.0.0 has been released, offering a major update that simplifies dynamic server-rendered applications by reducing the need for JavaScript and enhancing real-time capabilities.- Key features of this release include a diffing engine for efficient updates, HEEx components for improved HTML composability, and interactive uploads, all leveraging Elixir and the Erlang VM for superior latency and scalability.- The update also introduces new features like streams and async operations, with future plans to integrate JavaScript hooks and Web Components, encouraging developers to explore its easy setup.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42312301)

- Phoenix LiveView 1.0.0 has been released, featuring a new installer for easier setup and enhanced functionalities.
- The release is considered a major milestone for the Elixir and Phoenix projects, with users praising its productivity and ease of use compared to other frameworks.
- Despite some challenges like managing unreliable connections, the community is actively seeking solutions, and the creator, Chris McCord, is open to feedback.

## [Genie 2: A large-scale foundation world model](https://deepmind.google/discover/blog/genie-2-a-large-scale-foundation-world-model/)

- Research Genie 2, released on December 4, 2024, is a large-scale foundation world model designed to generate diverse 3D environments for AI agent training.- Developed by Jack Parker-Holder's team, Genie 2 can create action-controllable, playable worlds from a single image prompt, supporting rapid prototyping and interactive experiences.- Genie 2 advances AI research by modeling object interactions, character animations, and environmental physics, addressing the challenge of creating rich training environments for embodied agents.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42317903)

- Genie 2, developed by DeepMind, is a new world model that demonstrates potential in navigating environments using photos and text but lacks technical details, code, and open access.
- It is considered more of a prototype for research and development rather than a finished product, leading to criticism about its inaccessibility and limited practical application.
- The discussion around Genie 2 underscores the challenges of AI-generated content, the potential for future applications, and the competitive nature of AI development, with its real-world utility and impact still uncertain.

## [OpenTTD is an open source simulation game based upon Transport Tycoon Deluxe](https://www.openttd.org/)

- OpenTTD 14.1 was released on May 3, 2024, focusing on bug fixes since the initial release.- Key updates include resolving a multiplayer desynchronization bug and enhancements to the ship pathfinder and unbunching feature.- Players have shown significant engagement, logging 34,700 hours in 17,219 games in the past week.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42314700)

- OpenTTD is an open-source simulation game inspired by Transport Tycoon Deluxe, notable for being playable without needing additional assets, unlike many other open-source remakes.- Released in 2004, OpenTTD replaced the original game graphics by 2009, enabling its distribution on platforms like Steam while maintaining the original style without asset copying.- The game supports multiplayer and has educational applications, such as in AI development, and continues to be popular for its nostalgic appeal and engaging gameplay.

## [My C compiler compiled itself](https://github.com/keyvank/30cc)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42311031)

- A user detailed their journey in developing a self-compiling C compiler, highlighting the challenges and rewards of the process.
- Feedback focused on adhering to DRY (Don't Repeat Yourself) principles and avoiding unnecessary type casting with malloc(), a memory allocation function in C.
- The discussion expanded to include topics like compiler compatibility, coding style, bootstrapping, and the pros and cons of using Makefiles versus Python scripts for project builds.

## [How to grow professional relationships](https://tej.as/blog/how-to-grow-professional-relationships-tjs-model)

- The TJS (The Journey to Synergy) Collaboration Model outlines seven states of professional relationships, ranging from competitive to shared identity, to enhance collaboration.
- The model emphasizes moving from a zero-sum mindset to high-quality synergy, encouraging an abundance mindset and alignment with personal goals and values.
- Key stages include Competition, Coexist, Communicate, Cooperate, Coordinate, Collaborate, and "We are the same," with the ultimate goal of achieving more collectively than individually.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42315946)

## [A particle physics course for high-school students](https://ppc.web.cern.ch/)

- CERN's Physics Education Research team has developed a pilot particle physics course for high-school students, consisting of 16 chapters with videos and quizzes.- The course, lasting approximately 4 hours, covers fundamental topics such as "What is a particle?" and "What is a particle accelerator?" and includes DIY experiments.- Participants can complete chapters in any order and earn a digital certificate upon completing all quizzes, with feedback encouraged to enhance future iterations.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42314340)

- A particle physics course for high-school students in the UK involved 54 teenagers from 36 schools, conducted online over eight weeks.- Despite challenges such as limited interaction and self-esteem issues, over 80% of students passed a test with questions from an Oxford postgraduate quantum physics exam, with half achieving distinctions.- The course's success without complex math led to discussions on enforcing camera use in online classes, engaging students, and language accessibility for non-English speakers.

## [No NAT November: My month without IPv4](https://blog.infected.systems/posts/2024-12-01-no-nat-november/)

- The "No NAT November" challenge involved disabling IPv4 and using only IPv6, highlighting the potential and challenges of transitioning to IPv6-only networks.- The author suggests an "IPv6-mostly" approach, which prioritizes IPv6 while maintaining dual-stack networks, reducing maintenance and preparing for an IPv4-free future.- Transitional technologies like NAT64 and DNS64 helped address compatibility issues, with Apple devices adapting well, while Windows and Linux showed mixed results.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42313507)

- The discussion highlights challenges in transitioning from IPv4 to IPv6, including ISP support issues, hardware limitations, and business and technical hurdles.
- Users note benefits of IPv6, such as improved latency and simplified network management by avoiding NAT (Network Address Translation) complexities.
- The conversation includes skepticism about IPv6 adoption and explores technical solutions, configurations, and its impact on security and network management.

## [Formaldehyde Causes More Cancer Than Any Other Toxic Air Pollutant](https://www.propublica.org/article/formaldehyde-epa-trump-public-health-danger)

- Formaldehyde, a prevalent air pollutant from sources like car exhaust and factories, poses significant cancer risks, particularly linked to myeloid leukemia.- Efforts to regulate formaldehyde have been obstructed by industry influence and political changes, with notable setbacks during the Trump administration.- ProPublica's investigation underscores the underestimated risks of formaldehyde exposure and the ongoing challenges in implementing effective regulations, despite some progress under the Biden administration.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42313910)

- Formaldehyde is recognized as a major carcinogenic air pollutant, with ongoing debates about its regulation and associated health risks, particularly myeloid leukemia.
- The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) faces criticism from some scientists regarding its assessment of formaldehyde's risks, highlighting the tension between public safety and economic interests.
- Formaldehyde is commonly found in products like building materials and hair treatments, raising exposure concerns, while broader discussions include pollution from vehicle tires and reducing car dependency.

## [EmacsConf 2024](https://emacsconf.org/2024/)

- EmacsConf 2024 is scheduled to be held online on December 7-8, featuring talks, volunteer opportunities, and discussions centered around GNU Emacs and Emacs Lisp.
- The event will utilize free software for streaming and includes a satellite event in Lucerne, Switzerland, offering a hybrid experience.
- Participants can engage in discussions via the emacsconf-discuss mailing list, organize through emacsconf-org, and connect on IRC at #emacsconf on irc.libera.chat, with content licensed under CC BY-SA 4.0 and GPLv3+.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42314024)

- EmacsConf 2024 emphasizes the lasting dedication of the Emacs community, showcasing its unique features despite not being as popular as editors like VS Code.- Key discussions focus on Emacs' niche appeal, the relationship between popularity and software sustainability, and innovative presentations at the conference.- Notable topics include Emacs' integration with AI and unique modes such as gptel, highlighting its adaptability and continued relevance.

## [UnitedHealthcare CEO fatally shot in midtown Manhattan](https://www.cnn.com/2024/12/04/us/brian-thompson-united-healthcare-death/index.html)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42317968)

- The UnitedHealthcare CEO was tragically shot in Manhattan, leading to widespread speculation about the motive behind the incident.
- Some suggest the motive may be linked to UnitedHealthcare's controversial practices, including denying claims for terminal illnesses.
- The event has ignited conversations about the safety of high-profile individuals and the impact of corporate actions on public sentiment.

## [Stephen King to shut down his 3 radio stations in Maine](https://www.nytimes.com/2024/12/03/arts/stephen-king-maine-radio-stations.html)

- Stephen King is closing his three radio stations in Bangor, Maine, after over 40 years of ownership, due to financial losses and his age.
- The stations, which reflect King's passion for rock music and local media, will cease operations on New Year's Eve.
- This decision marks a significant change in King's business affairs, as he reorganizes his ventures.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42310683)

- Stephen King is shutting down his three radio stations in Maine due to the challenges posed by the rise of corporate broadcasting, which makes it hard for small stations to compete.
- The radio industry is facing difficulties as digital platforms like podcasts and YouTube become more popular, drawing audiences away from traditional radio.
- The closure of King's stations underscores the broader struggles of independent radio businesses in adapting to a rapidly evolving media environment.

## [The Porsche Macan EV is being recalled because its headlights are too bright](https://insideevs.com/news/742893/porsche-macan-electric-ev-recall-headlights/)

- Porsche is recalling 2,941 Macan Electric models in the U.S. due to headlights that are too bright, requiring a service center visit for a software update.
- The issue cannot be resolved through an over-the-air update, necessitating a physical visit to a service center for the free fix.
- The recall affects vehicles manufactured between March 15 and November 4, 2024, with dealers and owners being notified in December 2024 and January 2025, respectively.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42311912)

- The Porsche Macan EV is being recalled due to headlights that are excessively bright, causing discomfort and safety concerns for drivers.
- The recall underscores the differences in headlight regulations between the US and Europe, with the US having stricter brightness limits but less enforcement on proper adjustment.
- The issue highlights a broader frustration among drivers regarding the increasing brightness of modern car headlights, particularly on larger vehicles like SUVs and trucks.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="IMG_0001" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=IMG_0001&subheading=Wednesday%2C%20December%204%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
