---
slug: '/2024/12/17'
---

# 2024-12-17

## [Getting to 2M users as a one woman dev team [video]](https://brightonruby.com/2024/getting-to-2-million-users-as-a-one-woman-dev-team/)

- Nadia Odunayo, founder and CEO of The StoryGraph, manages a reading community with over a million users as a solo developer, highlighting her determination and technical skills.- Her background includes experience as a software engineer at Pivotal Labs and coding education from Makers Academy in London.- Her story exemplifies the potential of a "one person framework" in tech entrepreneurship, balancing professional and personal interests like dance and reading.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42441333)

- StoryGraph, a book tracking app developed by a single developer, Nadia Odunayo, has reached 2 million users, sparking discussions about alternatives and the limitations of competitors like Goodreads.
- Nadia Odunayo is recognized for her significant contributions to the Ruby on Rails community, highlighting the impact of individual developers in tech.
- The discussion also explores the broader theme of small teams achieving substantial user bases, with comparisons to successful projects like Stardew Valley and WhatsApp.

## [Moon](https://ciechanow.ski/moon/)

- The article provides an in-depth exploration of the Moon's orbit around Earth, its surface features, and its influence on phenomena such as tides and eclipses.
- It discusses the Moon's phases, surface craters, and the phenomenon of earthshine, highlighting the Moon's subtle impact on human life and its role as a constant presence in the night sky.
- The piece reflects on the Moon's gravitational interactions with Earth and the Sun's influence, offering a comprehensive understanding of our celestial neighbor.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42443229)

- A user recounted their journey with a Celestron 11" SCT telescope, initially facing challenges with long exposure photography but finding success and appreciation in lunar photography.
- The discussion included shared experiences, telescope usage tips, and praise for educational content, particularly Bartosz Ciechanowski's interactive explanations of celestial phenomena.
- The conversation underscored the moon's significance in both personal enjoyment and educational contexts, with users expressing gratitude for detailed and engaging astronomical content.

## [Always go to the funeral (2005)](https://www.npr.org/2005/08/08/4785079/always-go-to-the-funeral)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42435972)

## [Go Protobuf: The New Opaque API](https://go.dev/blog/protobuf-opaque)

- The Go Blog announces the introduction of a new Opaque API for Go Protobuf, enhancing memory efficiency and reducing pointer-related bugs by hiding struct fields and using accessor methods.
- The Opaque API supports lazy decoding, optimizing performance by decoding fields only when accessed, and is recommended for new development, with a Hybrid API available for gradual transition.
- The Protobuf Edition 2024 will make the Opaque API the default, and feedback is encouraged on the Go Protobuf issue tracker, with reference documentation available on protobuf.dev.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42434947)

- The discussion highlights the complexity and unique characteristics of using Protobuf and gRPC in the Go programming language, with some developers finding it challenging.- Alternatives such as JSON-RPC, MsgPack, and Varlink are considered simpler, while tools like ConnectRPC and Buf are suggested for improved compatibility and performance.- The conversation underscores the trade-offs between different serialization and communication protocols, including the benefits of Protobuf's schema language and the challenges of using JSON for APIs.

## [MIT study explains why laws are written in an incomprehensible style](https://news.mit.edu/2024/mit-study-explains-laws-incomprehensible-writing-style-0819)

- MIT cognitive scientists compare the complex language of legal documents, or "legalese," to magic spells, suggesting it conveys authority through its archaic and intricate style.
- The study, published in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, highlights that legal documents often use complex structures like "center-embedding," which contribute to their difficulty in comprehension.
- Despite efforts to simplify legal language since the 1970s, progress has been slow, and the study aims to promote clearer legal writing for better understanding.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42438175)

- An MIT study indicates that legal documents are complex due to traditional practices and the specific audience they target, primarily lawyers.
- Lawyers use "legalese" for its familiarity and precision, despite its difficulty for non-experts to comprehend, as it must align with varying case law.
- The study underscores the challenge of simplifying legal language while preserving its authority and legal integrity, as changes can have significant legal consequences.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Getting to 2M users as a one woman dev team [video]" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Getting%20to%202M%20users%20as%20a%20one%20woman%20dev%20team%20%5Bvideo%5D&subheading=Tuesday%2C%20December%2017%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
