---
slug: '/2024/12/22'
---

# 2024-12-22

## [We use our own hardware at Fastmail](https://www.fastmail.com/blog/why-we-use-our-own-hardware/)

- Fastmail opts for using its own hardware over cloud services, focusing on cost optimization and long-term planning, leveraging 25 years of experience.
- They have upgraded to NVMe SSDs, enhancing performance and reliability compared to traditional Hard Disk Drives (HDDs).
- Fastmail uses ZFS for storage, which offers advantages like compression and encryption, and has chosen new 2U servers with SSDs for improved input/output, reliability, and cost-effectiveness.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42485124)

- Fastmail opts for using its own hardware over cloud services, citing cost-effectiveness for businesses with substantial hosting requirements.
- The discussion between cloud and self-hosting is often clouded by misconceptions, with some cloud advocates lacking technical insight.
- Fastmail's strategy underscores the feasibility of businesses managing their own systems, questioning the assumption that cloud solutions are universally superior.

## [Rosetta 2 creator leaves Apple to work on Lean full-time](https://www.linkedin.com/posts/leonardo-de-moura-26a27b5_leanlang-leanprover-leanfro-activity-7274523099394400256-0F0x)

- Leonardo de Moura, a key figure at AWS and Lean FRO, announced that Cameron Zwarich, known for creating Rosetta 2 at Apple, has joined Lean FRO.
- Cameron Zwarich will focus on improving Lean's code generator, bringing his extensive software development experience to the team.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42483895)

- The developer behind Rosetta 2 has left Apple to focus on Lean, a proof assistant and programming language, highlighting a shift towards formal reasoning and software verification.
- Rosetta 2 is recognized for its technical prowess, with significant contributions from this developer before a team was established.
- The transition to Lean is motivated by its potential in AI advancements, with goals to enhance scalability, usability, and proof automation.

## [A data table thousands of years old (2020)](https://www.datafix.com.au/BASHing/2020-08-12.html)

- Ancient Mesopotamian account-keeping utilized clay tablets with rows and columns, akin to modern data tables, as evidenced by a tablet from Larsa, Iraq, translated by Eleanor Robson.- The tablet, cataloged at the British Museum, resembles a payroll summary for a construction project, demonstrating organized data with headers and calculations over 3500 years ago.- This historical insight highlights that while data tables have ancient origins, their continuous use isn't guaranteed, as inventions can be lost and rediscovered over time.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42482829)

- The discussion emphasizes the timeless relevance of tabular data representation, despite the data table being from 2020, which is considered outdated by current standards.
- Participants explore the historical significance and intuitive design of tables, noting their evolution into modern spreadsheets and databases.
- The conversation also considers cultural and technical advancements in data preservation, suggesting that modern data might be preserved similarly to ancient data.

## [Slow deployment causes meetings (2015)](https://tidyfirst.substack.com/p/slow-deployment-causes-meetings)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42484139)

- Slow deployments increase risk and lead to more meetings, while frequent, smaller deployments reduce risk and enhance value delivery.
- Automated testing and infrastructure improvements can decrease the need for meetings and improve deployment efficiency, but organizations often face challenges like bureaucracy and lack of technical skills.
- Encouraging non-technical staff to embrace automated testing and reducing manual processes, along with adopting microservices, can improve deployment frequency, though it requires organizational change and better governance.

## [The essays of Michel de Montaigne online](https://hyperessays.net/)

- HyperEssays is an online project providing modern editions of Michel de Montaigne's Essays, featuring four versions from different historical translations and updates.- The project offers tools and context for new readers, with free chapter PDFs and formatting for easy reading on various devices, covering topics like religion, friendship, and law.- HyperEssays is a continually evolving resource, welcoming contributions to maintain its accessibility and free availability.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42484527)

- Michel de Montaigne's essays, available online, are often likened to blogs due to their personal yet carefully crafted nature, covering diverse topics such as the acceptance of death.
- A notable quote from his essay "Of Experience" emphasizes the human condition, stating that even on the highest throne, we remain human.
- Modern translations and AI-assisted updates aim to make Montaigne's writings more accessible, preserving their original charm for both wealthy and ordinary readers.

## [Dividing unsigned 8-bit numbers](http://0x80.pl/notesen/2024-12-21-uint8-division.html)

- The text explores methods for dividing unsigned 8-bit numbers using SIMD (Single Instruction, Multiple Data) instructions, focusing on floating-point division and the long division algorithm.
- It highlights the implementation of these methods using SSE, AVX2, and AVX-512 instructions, with performance comparisons on CPUs like Ryzen 7, Skylake-X, and IceLake.
- Notably, the AVX-512 implementation of long division is the fastest on Intel CPUs, while AVX2 using approximate reciprocal is the fastest on Ryzen, with source code available on GitHub.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42481612)

- Division of unsigned 8-bit numbers can be optimized by using multiplication with a reciprocal, approximated by a dyadic rational, such as multiplying by 171 and right-shifting by 9 for division by 3.
- This optimization is beneficial in hardware and optimizing compilers, with additional techniques like modular multiplication, lookup tables, and SIMD (Single Instruction, Multiple Data) instructions, though each has limitations.
- Some Instruction Set Architectures (ISAs), like RISC-V Vector Extension, support SIMD integer division, but such support is uncommon, and various techniques, including floating-point arithmetic and micro-lookup tables, are explored for optimization.

## [JEP 483: Ahead-of-Time Class Loading and Linking](https://openjdk.org/jeps/483)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42481813)

- JEP 483 proposes Ahead-of-Time (AOT) class loading and linking for Java, aiming to enhance startup times, particularly beneficial for command-line interface (CLI) applications.
- The proposal focuses on caching class loading and linking data, not Just-In-Time (JIT) compiled code, which could be advantageous in serverless environments like AWS Lambda.
- A trade-off exists between increased container size and improved class loading speed, which needs careful evaluation, especially for larger applications.

## [Decoding the telephony signals in Pink Floyd's 'The Wall'](https://corelatus.com/blog/Decoding_the_telephony_signals_in_Pink_Floyd_s__The_Wall_.html)

- The Corelatus Blog delves into telecom hardware, specifically E1/T1 and SDH/SONET interfaces, and recently analyzed telephony signals in Pink Floyd's 'The Wall'.- The analysis identified SS5 signalling, a system used in the early 1980s, by examining audio spectrograms and comparing them to known standards like DTMF and CAS R2.- The study concluded that the audio likely originated from a real call, providing an authentic long-distance connection feel, with an extended version appearing in the song 'Young Lust'.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42485795)

- James Guthrie revealed that a telephone operator's voice was recorded for Pink Floyd's 'The Wall' to symbolize the isolation experienced while touring.
- The recording process for the album was marked by artistic freedom, free from commercial constraints, leading to its expansive and intricate tracks.
- The interview also highlighted the difficulty in deciphering the phone number used in the recording due to changes in London's area codes over the years.

## [Singlefile: A web extension to save a complete web page into a single HTML file](https://github.com/gildas-lormeau/SingleFile)

- SingleFile is a versatile web extension and command-line tool that enables users to save entire web pages as single HTML files, compatible with major browsers such as Chrome, Firefox, Edge, and Safari.
- It offers features like saving selected content, multiple tabs, annotations, auto-save, and integration with Google Drive and GitHub, although it has some limitations with certain domains and file name characters.
- The tool is open-source, licensed under AGPL, and is utilized in projects like ArchiveBox and Zotero Connector, with contributions from various translators.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42481659)

- SingleFile is a web extension designed to save entire web pages as single HTML files, offering a compact saving method using UTF-16 encoding.- The extension provides an alternative by saving pages as self-extracting ZIP/HTML files, addressing limitations of standard browser save functions and enhancing PDF printing.- Privacy concerns were discussed, but the developer confirmed that SingleFile respects user privacy, making it a valuable tool for offline access and sharing.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="We use our own hardware at Fastmail" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=We%20use%20our%20own%20hardware%20at%20Fastmail&subheading=Sunday%2C%20December%2022%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
