---
slug: '/2024/11/21'
---

# 2024-11-21

## [ICC issues warrants for Netanyahu, Gallant, and Hamas officials](https://www.icc-cpi.int/news/situation-state-palestine-icc-pre-trial-chamber-i-rejects-state-israels-challenges)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42203543)

- The International Criminal Court (ICC) has issued arrest warrants for Israeli leaders Netanyahu and Gallant, along with Hamas officials, for alleged war crimes.
- The warrants underscore the ICC's jurisdiction over crimes in Palestinian territories, even though Israel does not recognize the court's authority.
- This situation highlights challenges in international law enforcement, as major powers like the US do not recognize the ICC, potentially limiting its effectiveness and making actual arrests unlikely.

## [Everyone is capable of, and can benefit from, mathematical thinking](https://www.quantamagazine.org/mathematical-thinking-isnt-what-you-think-it-is-20241118/)

- David Bessis, a mathematician, posits that mathematical thinking, which balances intuition and logic, is beneficial for everyone, enhancing creativity and understanding.- In his book "Mathematica: A Secret World of Intuition and Curiosity," Bessis likens mathematical thinking to a dialogue between reason and instinct, akin to yoga, and emphasizes it as a skill developed through practice.- Bessis views math as a universal life lesson that can bring joy, clarity, and self-confidence, suggesting it is not just problem-solving but a form of self-help.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42200209)

- Mathematical thinking is beneficial for everyone, but many face challenges due to ineffective teaching methods and lack of motivation.- Math is often mistakenly viewed as an innate talent rather than a skill that can be developed with the right approach and mindset, similar to sports.- Emphasizing that math is accessible to all, teaching should focus on developing mathematical thinking skills, making learning enjoyable and inclusive.

## [Z-Library Helps Students to Overcome Academic Poverty, Study Finds](https://torrentfreak.com/z-library-helps-students-to-overcome-academic-poverty-study-finds-241120/)

- A study in the Journal of University Teaching & Learning Practice examines the use of Z-Library, a shadow library providing free books and academic articles, highlighting high costs and limited access as primary motivators.
- Chinese postgraduate students, among others, use Z-Library to combat academic poverty, viewing it as crucial for academic success despite legal issues faced by the platform.
- The study recommends that universities and publishers increase free access to content to bridge digital divides and address the needs of students relying on such resources.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42199301)

- A study emphasizes Z-Library's role in alleviating academic poverty by offering free access to textbooks, aiding students in previewing books before buying physical copies.
- The discussion explores the dual nature of piracy, with arguments that it can both negatively impact sales and potentially lead to legitimate purchases, maintaining resource relevance.
- The conversation also references other platforms like Sci-Hub and Libgen, debating the ethical and educational implications of piracy in accessing educational and software resources.

## [Weight-loss drug found to shrink muscle in mice, human cells](https://www.ualberta.ca/en/folio/2024/11/weight-loss-drug-found-to-shrink-heart-muscle.html)

- A University of Alberta study indicates that weight-loss drugs such as Ozempic may lead to heart and muscle shrinkage, raising concerns about potential long-term health effects.
- The study observed heart muscle loss in both mice and human cells, prompting researchers to recommend monitoring heart health in users of these drugs.
- Experts suggest that up to 40% of weight loss from these drugs is muscle, advising users to maintain muscle mass through proper nutrition and resistance training during treatment.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42199447)

- A study indicates that semaglutide, a weight-loss drug, may lead to more muscle loss than traditional dieting, raising concerns about its long-term health effects.
- The research found that semaglutide reduces heart muscle in both mice and human cells, prompting a debate on whether the benefits of weight loss outweigh the potential risks.
- Experts recommend proper nutrition and exercise to counteract muscle loss, emphasizing the need for further research on semaglutide's impact on muscle and overall health.

## [A common urban intersection in the Netherlands (2018)](https://bicycledutch.wordpress.com/2018/02/20/a-common-urban-intersection-in-the-netherlands/)

- Urban intersections in the Netherlands, such as those in 's-Hertogenbosch, are designed to prioritize safety and efficiency for all road users, including motor traffic, cyclists, and pedestrians.
- Key features include protected cycleways, raised intersections, clear road markings, and priority rules that favor non-motorized traffic, reducing the need for traffic signals.
- This design approach emphasizes the Dutch commitment to accommodating diverse traffic types through innovative and thoughtful infrastructure planning.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42202397)

- The Netherlands prioritizes cyclists and pedestrians at urban intersections, contrasting with countries like the UK and Italy, where cycling infrastructure often lacks priority and can be awkward or poorly designed.- The success of the Dutch model is due to a cultural shift and legal frameworks that favor cyclists, leading to safer and more efficient cycling environments.- There are calls for other countries to adopt the Dutch model to improve cycling safety and infrastructure, highlighting its effectiveness and appeal.

## [Google stops letting sites like Forbes rule search for "Best CBD Gummies"](https://arstechnica.com/gadgets/2024/11/google-cracks-down-on-parasite-seo-punishing-established-publishers/)

- Google has revised its site reputation abuse policy to address "Parasite SEO," where established websites use their domain authority to promote unrelated third-party product recommendations.
- This update has led to a decline in search rankings for sites like Forbes and Time, which have been using this tactic for affiliate content.
- The policy change aims to improve the search experience by reducing the influence of exploitative SEO practices on search results.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42198115)

- Google has implemented changes to prevent sites like Forbes from dominating search results for terms such as "Best CBD Gummies," addressing issues with SEO spam and affiliate marketing.
- This change aims to improve search result quality, which has been affected by AI-generated content and aggressive SEO tactics.
- The move is also seen as a response to competition from AI tools like ChatGPT, as Google seeks to enhance search results and diminish the impact of low-quality content.

## [Electrobun: Cross-platform desktop applications written in TypeScript](https://electrobun.dev/)

- Electrobun is a tool for developing fast, small, cross-platform desktop applications using Typescript, leveraging bun for execution and zig for native bindings.
- The latest version, Electrobun v0.0.13, can be installed with `$ bun install electrobun`, offering compact app bundles (~12MB) and minimal updates (as small as 4KB).
- It provides an integrated workflow that allows developers to start coding in 5 minutes and distribute applications in 10, ensuring efficient performance with isolated processes and easy Remote Procedure Call (RPC) capabilities.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42199486)

- Electrobun is a new framework designed for creating cross-platform desktop applications using TypeScript, similar to Electron but utilizing Bun and the system webview instead of Node.js and Chromium.
- Currently, Electrobun is only available for macOS, with future plans to support Windows and Linux, and is in its early development stages focusing on stability.
- The framework promises small update sizes and a custom Remote Procedure Call (RPC) mechanism for efficient inter-process communication, though it currently lacks comprehensive documentation and visual examples.

## [PHP 8.4](https://www.php.net/releases/8.4/en.php)

- PHP 8.4.1 introduces significant updates, including property hooks for computed properties and asymmetric visibility for property access control.- Enhancements include an updated DOM API with HTML5 support, new array functions, and a new JIT (Just-In-Time) implementation for improved performance.- Deprecated features involve unbundled extensions and changes to certain constants and functions, encouraging users to upgrade for better performance and syntax.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42202670)

- PHP 8.4 introduces property hooks, a feature aimed at simplifying getters and setters, drawing comparisons to similar functionality in C#.
- The update includes performance enhancements, improved stack traces, and new array functions, contributing to PHP's ongoing evolution.
- Developers are divided on the changes, with some concerned about added complexity, while others appreciate the reduction in boilerplate code and a shift from Java-like verbosity.

## [Hyrum's Law in Golang](https://abenezer.org/blog/hyrum-law-in-golang)

- Hyrum's Law, named after Google engineer Hyrum Wright, suggests that with enough API users, all observable behaviors will be relied upon by someone, making changes risky.
- In the Go programming language, altering error messages like "http: request body too large" can disrupt existing code that depends on these messages, illustrating Hyrum's Law.
- This concept is not exclusive to Go; it is also evident in other languages like JavaScript, emphasizing the importance of designing systems to minimize unintended dependencies.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42201892)

- Hyrum's Law suggests that any observable behavior in a system, even if unintended, can become a dependency for users, making changes potentially disruptive.
- Library authors should document stable API parts and consider user dependencies, while consumers should be cautious of relying on undocumented features.
- The discussion emphasizes balancing technical improvements with user expectations, noting differences in handling changes between open-source and enterprise software.

## [We open-sourced our compost monitoring tech](https://github.com/gtls64/MontyHome-Hackers-Guide)

- Monty Compost Co. is a startup focused on enhancing composting efficiency for both residential and industrial use through open-source technology.- The technology integrates with platforms like Raspberry Pi and Arduino, using sensors to monitor gas, temperature, moisture, and air pressure, with data exportable as CSV files.- While initially designed for compost monitoring, the technology is adaptable for Internet of Things (IoT) and environmental monitoring applications.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42200099)

- Monty Compost Co. has released its compost monitoring technology as open-source, allowing for adaptation in various applications beyond composting.
- The system is compatible with Raspberry Pi and Arduino, featuring sensors for gas composition, temperature, moisture, and air pressure, with data exportable as CSV files.
- This technology is designed to optimize composting but is also applicable for Internet of Things (IoT) and environmental monitoring, encouraging user experimentation and project sharing.

## [The meme-ification of the "Demon Core"](https://doomsdaymachines.net/p/the-meme-ification-of-the-demon-core)

- The "Demon Core," associated with two fatal nuclear accidents, has become a dark internet meme, often featuring unexpected juxtapositions with cute anime characters.- The meme's popularity since 2019 highlights a niche interest that has gained wider recognition, despite being considered in poor taste.- The "Demon Core" was the third plutonium core intended for WWII, adding complexity to its meme-ification, particularly due to its Japanese origins.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42200699)

- The "Demon Core" memes originate from a blend of dark humor and historical nuclear incidents involving a plutonium sphere.
- The memes juxtapose the core's dangerous nature with humorous or absurd contexts, sparking debate on whether the humor stems from the reckless experiments or as a coping mechanism for nuclear history.
- This phenomenon illustrates how humor can emerge from serious topics, offering insights into human behavior and unexpected reactions.

## [The Matrix: Infinite-Horizon World Generation with Real-Time Interaction](https://thematrix1999.github.io/)

- The Matrix project is developing a real-time, immersive digital universe with high-quality visuals and frame-level precision, inspired by the film's concept.
- It utilizes advanced models like Swin-DPM for generating infinitely long videos, allowing real-time control and exploration of dynamic environments.
- The project plans to open-source its data to encourage research and innovation, showcasing diverse scenes that blend virtual and real-world settings.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42201117)

- The discussion focuses on the potential for generating infinite virtual worlds, inspired by "The Matrix: Infinite-Horizon World Generation with Real-Time Interaction."
- Comparisons are made to games like Minecraft, which utilize procedural generation to maintain spatial consistency, and suggestions include using low-resolution 3D worlds for effectiveness.
- The role of AI in enhancing virtual reality (VR) and mixed reality experiences is highlighted, alongside concerns about the current technology's usability and marketability.

## [Bike route planner that follows almost only official bike trails](https://trailimap.com/)

- A new bike touring route planner app has been developed, focusing on utilizing existing bike infrastructure and allowing users to explore routes via maps or official trails.- The app currently covers Europe and uses OpenStreetMap data for optimal route planning, with future expansion plans to North America and globally.- Technically, the app employs Graphhopper for route finding, is built with Next.js 14 and Typescript, and uses a .NET backend, with map tiles sourced from MapTiler, though self-hosting is planned.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42197754)

- A new bike route planner app has been developed, focusing on official bike trails for bike touring, and is currently available in Europe.- The app utilizes OpenStreetMap data and employs Graphhopper for route finding, with a web app built using Next.js and .NET.- Future expansion plans include extending the app's availability to North America and other regions, with an open invitation for feedback and collaboration from developers.

## [Boeing overcharged the U.S. Air Force 8,000% above market for soap dispensers](https://www.reuters.com/business/aerospace-defense/boeing-overcharged-air-force-nearly-8000-soap-dispensers-watchdog-alleges-2024-10-29/)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42201068)

- Boeing charged the U.S. Air Force $149,072 for soap dispensers, significantly above market price, equating to $671 per plane for 222 C-17 aircraft.
- The inflated cost is attributed to compliance with military specifications and documentation requirements, sparking debate over the procurement process's efficiency.
- The situation underscores potential inefficiencies in military contracting, with suggestions that the system may favor contractors like Boeing.

## [Europe's Internet resilience mitigates impact of submarine cable cuts](https://blog.cloudflare.com/resilient-internet-connectivity-baltic-cable-cuts/)

- Recent cable cuts in the Baltic Sea, specifically the BCS East-West Interlink and C-Lion1 cables, did not significantly disrupt Internet connectivity in Europe due to resilient infrastructure.
- Europe's robust Internet infrastructure, featuring multiple submarine and terrestrial connections, ensures minimal impact from such incidents by providing alternative routes.
- Cloudflare Radar actively monitors global Internet connectivity, offering updates through social media and blog posts, highlighting the importance of redundant network architecture to prevent disruptions.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42198635)

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="ICC issues warrants for Netanyahu, Gallant, and Hamas officials" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=ICC%20issues%20warrants%20for%20Netanyahu%2C%20Gallant%2C%20and%20Hamas%20officials&subheading=Thursday%2C%20November%2021%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
