---
slug: '/2024/11/23'
---

# 2024-11-23

## [The 'Return to Office' Lies](https://blog.avas.space/rto/)

- The blog post criticizes the push for returning to the office, arguing that roles like data entry and digital communication do not necessitate physical presence.
- The author highlights the benefits of remote work, such as increased productivity, reduced stress, and better accessibility for disabled and chronically ill employees.
- Concerns are raised about the potential loss of young talent if remote work options are limited, especially given the lack of performance bonuses despite increased workloads.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42221623)

- Many individuals prefer remote work over higher salaries, valuing the benefits of avoiding commutes and having more personal time.
- Some workers accept pay cuts for the flexibility and mental well-being that remote work provides.
- The debate on remote work versus return to office (RTO) involves issues of control, productivity, in-person collaboration, and broader impacts on work-life balance and future work environments.

## [Highest-resolution images ever captured of the sun’s entire surface](https://www.smithsonianmag.com/smart-news/check-out-the-highest-resolution-images-ever-captured-of-the-suns-entire-surface-180985518/)

- The European Space Agency (ESA) has released the highest-resolution images of the sun's surface, captured by the Solar Orbiter in March 2023, from less than 46 million miles away.
- The Solar Orbiter, a joint mission with NASA launched in 2020, has achieved milestones such as capturing the closest images of the sun and its polar regions.
- The new images, taken by the Polarimetric and Helioseismic Imager (PHI) and the Extreme Ultraviolet Imager (EUI), provide unprecedented detail of the sun's magnetic fields and outer atmosphere, aiming to enhance understanding of the sun's dynamic nature.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42220155)

- The Solar Orbiter has captured the highest-resolution images of the sun's entire surface, available in various formats such as visible light, magnetogram, velocity map, and ultraviolet views.
- These images are accessible online, sparking discussions about their quality, processing, and some noted artifacts and slow zooming issues.
- The images were taken over several hours, highlighting the sun's immense energy and scale, and prompting discussions on its impact and the potential for advanced life forms within stars.

## [Quake 3 Source Code Review: Network Model (2012)](https://fabiensanglard.net/quake3/network.php)

- Fabien Sanglard's review praises Quake 3's network model for its efficient use of UDP/IP, which is preferred over TCP/IP to minimize latency in fast-paced gaming environments.
- The server manages UDP's unreliability by using snapshot histories to create delta packets, ensuring efficient communication between the client and server.
- The NetChannel module pre-fragments messages to prevent router fragmentation, and handles guaranteed delivery for certain messages, enhancing the overall network performance.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42218532)

- The review of Quake 3's network model initiated discussions on work-life balance, highlighting user experiences of burnout and the advantages of reducing work hours for hobbies.
- Quake 3's net code was effective for local area network (LAN) play but struggled with latency issues during remote play, contrasting with modern game protocols that require advanced logic for synchronization and bandwidth management.
- The discussion provided resources for understanding real-time game protocols and reflected on the evolution of internet speeds and gaming experiences over time.

## [Americans see their savings vanish in Synapse fintech crisis](https://www.cnbc.com/2024/11/22/synapse-bankruptcy-thousands-of-americans-see-their-savings-vanish.html)

- The collapse of fintech company Synapse has resulted in thousands of Americans losing their savings, with accounts initially believed to be government-backed.
- A dispute between Synapse and Evolve Bank led to missing funds and unresolved issues, leaving customers locked out of their accounts for months.
- The incident underscores the risks associated with fintech companies that lack direct relationships with traditional banks, as regulatory bodies have not stepped in to resolve the crisis.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42219407)

- The Synapse fintech crisis has resulted in Americans losing their savings, with $96 million currently unaccounted for, as Synapse, the financial processor, went bankrupt.
- Yotta, a fintech app involved in the crisis, offered low interest rates and lottery incentives but is not a bank, meaning the FDIC (Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation) won't cover the losses since no bank has failed.
- This situation underscores the inherent risks associated with fintech companies and emphasizes the necessity for improved regulatory measures in the industry.

## [RGFW: Single-header C99 window abstraction library](https://github.com/ColleagueRiley/RGFW)

- Riley's Graphics library FrameWork (RGFW) is a lightweight, single-header library for creating graphics applications, offering a flexible alternative to GLFW.- RGFW supports multiple platforms, including UNIX, MacOS, Windows, and webASM, with experimental support for Wayland, and works with various graphics backends like OpenGL and Vulkan.- It is designed for RSGL but can be used independently or with other libraries, featuring a flexible event system and compatibility with multiple compilers, under the Zlib/libPNG license.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42217535)

- RGFW is a single-header C99 window abstraction library, with discussions focusing on its compatibility with Windows, particularly with MSVC (Microsoft Visual C++) and MinGW (Minimalist GNU for Windows) compilers.
- The library's Wayland support is experimental, and users express a need for better alternatives to X11, a windowing system for bitmap displays.
- The conversation highlights the pros and cons of single-header libraries, comparing RGFW to other libraries like SDL (Simple DirectMedia Layer) and GLFW, and addressing the challenges of multi-platform support, including mobile.

## [MaXX Interactive Desktop -- the little brother of the great SGI Desktop on IRIX](https://docs.maxxinteractive.com/)

- MaXX Interactive Desktop has released a new version focused on high performance, stability, and productivity with a minimalist design and low resource usage.- The desktop environment is designed to enhance creativity by prioritizing user applications and minimizing visual distractions, catering to IRIX users, graphic artists, and developers.- The project is transitioning to a community-driven model, encouraging user participation and collaboration.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42218184)

- MaXX Interactive Desktop, inspired by the SGI Desktop on IRIX, is being developed for Linux, with future plans for FreeBSD and Windows11 WSL2 support.
- The project aims to recreate a classic desktop experience but is progressing slowly and is not open source, which may limit community contributions.
- Users express nostalgia for unique features and UI elements from older desktop environments, highlighting challenges in achieving modern compatibility.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="The 'Return to Office' Lies" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=The%20'Return%20to%20Office'%20Lies&subheading=Saturday%2C%20November%2023%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
