---
slug: '/2024/11/26'
---

# 2024-11-26

## [Amazon S3 Adds Put-If-Match (Compare-and-Swap)](https://aws.amazon.com/about-aws/whats-new/2024/11/amazon-s3-functionality-conditional-writes/)

- Amazon S3 introduces conditional writes, enabling updates only if an object remains unmodified, preventing concurrent overwrites by verifying the object's ETag.- This feature, akin to the HTTP if-none-match header, allows clients to use the if-match header to ensure ETag consistency before writing, enhancing efficiency for distributed applications.- Available at no extra cost across all AWS Regions, implementation can be done using the AWS SDK, API, or CLI, with further details in the S3 User Guide.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42240678)

- Amazon S3 has launched a new feature called Put-If-Match, which acts like a compare-and-swap operation, allowing conditional object writing based on version matching.- This feature improves synchronization and concurrency control, enabling developers to perform more complex operations, such as building databases on S3 without extra infrastructure.- The update brings Amazon S3 in line with similar features offered by other cloud storage services like Google Cloud Storage and Azure Blob Storage.

## [Lies we tell ourselves to keep using Golang (2022)](https://fasterthanli.me/articles/lies-we-tell-ourselves-to-keep-using-golang)

- The article critiques Golang, noting that while it has appealing features like an asynchronous runtime and garbage collector, it also has significant drawbacks, such as the absence of sum types and inadequate error handling.- It argues that Go's perceived simplicity can be deceptive, leading to hidden complexities and challenges in production environments, and stresses the importance of recognizing these issues rather than adopting Go solely for its ease of use.- The article contrasts Go with Rust, suggesting that despite Rust's challenges, it provides more robust solutions for managing complexity and ensuring code correctness.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42243500)

- The article critiques Go's error handling, contrasting it with Rust's more sophisticated approach, which some find more elegant.
- There is a divide in opinion: some appreciate Go's simplicity and explicit error handling, while others find it tedious and error-prone.
- Despite criticisms, Go remains popular due to its simplicity and widespread adoption by large companies.

## [Cybertruck's Many Recalls](https://www.wired.com/story/cybertrucks-many-recalls-make-it-worse-than-91-percent-of-all-2024-vehicles/)

- The Tesla Cybertruck has experienced multiple recalls since its launch, with the latest involving faulty drive inverters affecting over 2,400 units, raising concerns about its reliability.
- Despite quality issues, the Cybertruck's unique design continues to attract buyers, although its inability to meet European safety standards limits its market reach.
- The recalls, while demonstrating regulatory effectiveness, may harm Tesla's brand reputation, especially given Elon Musk's significant influence on US regulations.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42242971)

## [Y Combinator often backs startups that duplicate other YC companies, data shows](https://techcrunch.com/2024/11/22/y-combinator-often-backs-startups-that-duplicate-other-yc-companies-data-shows-its-not-just-ai-code-editors/)

- Y Combinator (YC), a prominent startup accelerator, is known for launching successful companies like Airbnb and Stripe, but many of its startups build similar or identical products to previous YC companies.
- The PearAI controversy highlighted this trend, where PearAI was accused of cloning another YC product, yet YC CEO Garry Tan defended the practice, citing the importance of choice and innovation.
- Deckmatch's analysis of YC trends shows popular startup categories include AI code editors, restaurant PoS systems, and business finance tools, with some areas like crypto trading seeing decreased interest.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42243746)

- Y Combinator frequently invests in startups that replicate other YC-backed companies, prioritizing the founders' potential over unique ideas.- This strategy is seen as a way to hedge bets on similar concepts, as success often depends on execution and timing rather than the originality of the idea.- While some view this as a potential conflict of interest, it is a common venture capital practice to fund multiple companies in the same sector to validate markets and enhance the likelihood of success.

## [Fly.io outage – resolved](https://status.flyio.net)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42241851)

- Fly.io experienced a temporary outage, which was resolved, but it raised user concerns about the platform's reliability due to past incidents.- Users compared Fly.io to alternatives like Railway and Cloudflare, highlighting differences in reliability, features, and user experiences.- Despite the challenges, some users value Fly.io for its ease of use and competitive pricing, while discussions emphasized the importance of high availability and monitoring dependencies.

## [A Short Introduction to Automotive Lidar Technology](https://www.viksnewsletter.com/p/short-intro-to-automotive-lidar)

- Vik's Newsletter delves into automotive lidar technology, which is vital for self-driving cars due to its ability to produce high-resolution images using infrared lasers.- The newsletter discusses lidar's operating principles, including wavelength choices, photodetectors, and ranging techniques like Time-of-Flight and Frequency Modulated Continuous Wave.- It also examines various lidar systems, such as mechanical and solid-state options, with the aim of reducing costs and enhancing technology for wider adoption in autonomous vehicles.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42239721)

- Automotive lidar technology is evolving, with rotating scanners like Velodyne's being used despite their high cost, while alternatives like flash lidar and MEMS mirrors face market and technical challenges.
- Waymo's continued use of rotating lidars, even in vulnerable vehicle corners, underscores the need for more affordable and integrated solutions, as pulsed lidar offers reduced interference compared to continuous systems.
- Lidar provides high-resolution imaging and performs well in low-light conditions, but faces competition from camera-based systems, which some companies, like Tesla, prefer for cost reasons, fueling ongoing debates on the best approach for autonomous driving.

## [Do you need ID to read the REAL-ID rules?](https://papersplease.org/wp/2024/11/25/do-you-need-id-to-read-the-real-id-rules/)

- An attempt to access the TSA's new digital-ID rules revealed issues with the REAL-ID Act, as the rules are not publicly accessible and require ID for access, raising concerns about secret laws and due process.
- The TSA's digital-ID standards, derived from private documents, involve complex interactions between apps, devices, and government agencies, with privacy concerns over logged ID usage.
- The author argues that the TSA's practices violate public access rights and has reported the issue to the Office of the Federal Register, seeking the withdrawal of the rule.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42239952)

- The discussion revolves around the necessity of having an ID to access REAL-ID rules, with some users questioning the effectiveness of TSA's security measures.- Concerns are raised about the implications of mobile driver's licenses (mDLs) and the privacy issues they may present.- Users express skepticism about the effectiveness of TSA and the concept of security theater, while also questioning the long-term implications of digital IDs like REAL-ID and mDLs.

## [A solution to The Onion problem of J. Kenji Lopez-Alt (2021)](https://medium.com/@drspoulsen/a-solution-to-the-onion-problem-of-j-kenji-l%C3%B3pez-alt-c3c4ab22e67c)

- The post addresses the "Onion Problem," which involves cutting onions to achieve minimal variance in slice volumes for uniformity.- A mathematical exploration using calculus determined the optimal cutting point is 55.73066% below the onion's center, termed the "true onion constant."- This finding refines a previous suggestion of cutting towards a point 60% below the center, providing a more precise method for even onion slices.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42244814)

- The discussion explores a mathematical model for cutting onions evenly, inspired by J. Kenji Lopez-Alt, using a half-disk representation to simplify the geometry and minimize slice size variance.- Users debate the model's practicality and accuracy, considering the onion's 3D structure and non-uniform layers, and suggest alternative cutting methods or tools.- The conversation also considers the balance between uniformity and culinary preferences, referencing food personalities like Adam Ragusea.

## [Redis is trying to take over the all of the OSS Redis libraries](https://twitter.com/TomHacohen/status/1861137484249252093)

- Redis is reportedly taking control of all open-source software (OSS) Redis libraries, which include popular ones like Jedis, Lettuce, and redis-py.
- These libraries are currently down, and another library, redis-rs, is also facing potential control or shutdown.
- This situation is significant as it affects developers who rely on these libraries for Redis integration in their applications.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42239607)

- Redis Inc. is taking control of open-source Redis libraries, sparking controversy and leading some developers to remove Redis dependencies due to trademark enforcement issues.
- Libraries such as redis-py, Lettuce, and Jedis have been moved under Redis Inc.'s official organization, seen as a defensive strategy against competitors like Valkey.
- The community is worried about trademark claims and potential vendor lock-in, prompting discussions on alternatives like Valkey and Kvrocks, and highlighting the challenges of trademark enforcement in open-source projects.

## [Setelinleikkaus: When Finns snipped their cash in half to curb inflation](http://jpkoning.blogspot.com/2024/11/setelinleikkaus-when-finns-snipped.html)

- In 1945, Finland implemented "setelinleikkaus," a policy requiring citizens to cut large banknotes in half to combat post-WWII inflation, with one half retaining value and the other becoming a government bond.- The policy was ineffective as it only targeted physical cash, a minor part of the money supply, unlike more successful reforms in other European countries like Belgium.- The article speculates that future inflation control might involve digital account freezes, a more precise but potentially controversial method.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42243755)

- In 1945, Finland uniquely addressed inflation by physically cutting banknotes in half, contrasting with modern methods like adjusting interest rates.
- This historical approach has sparked discussions on current monetary policy, where central banks manage inflation through interest rates and open market operations.
- The potential future control of digital money, possibly via central bank digital currencies, raises concerns about increased government oversight of personal finances.

## [Prayer, Placement, and Absolution: Peter Hristoff on Islamic Prayer Rugs (2015)](https://www.metmuseum.org/perspectives/peter-hristoff-islamic-prayer-rugs)

- Peter Hristoff's artwork delves into the intersection of art and spirituality, particularly through the medium of prayer rugs, starting from 1997.- His creations, including drawings and serigraph prints, evolve into larger "rug" pieces on rice paper, inspired by Turkish rugs and kilims, which he views as personal diaries with symbolic meanings.- Hristoff's work embodies "bright sadness," a blend of joy and sorrow, influenced by Patriarch Bartholomew's writings, and continues to explore the spiritual and physical aspects of human nature.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42239487)

- Peter Hristoff's article explores the significance of Islamic prayer rugs, emphasizing their intricate designs, such as tessellations, which symbolize God's infiniteness.- The article discusses the Islamic prohibition of representational art, leading to the use of calligraphy and geometric patterns in Islamic artifacts.- It highlights the historical and cultural context of prayer rugs, noting their use across various religious traditions, including Christianity, and their practical and spiritual roles.

## [Deno vs. Oracle: Canceling the JavaScript Trademark](https://deno.com/blog/deno-v-oracle)

- Deno has filed a petition with the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) to cancel Oracle's trademark on "JavaScript," aiming to make it a public good and remove legal barriers to its use.
- The petition argues that "JavaScript" is a generic term, Oracle committed fraud in renewing the trademark, and Oracle has abandoned the trademark through nonuse.
- Over 14,000 developers support Deno's move, and Oracle has until January 4, 2025, to respond, with Deno ready to share all proceedings with the community.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42239263)

- Deno has filed a petition with the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) to cancel Oracle's trademark on JavaScript, sparking a debate on trademark ethics and community benefits.
- The discussion involves Deno's compatibility with Node Package Manager (NPM) and its impact on the broader JavaScript ecosystem, reflecting differing opinions on the future of JavaScript and runtime environments.
- Opinions are divided, with some viewing Oracle's trademark use as unethical, while others question Deno's intentions, suggesting it might be a public relations strategy.

## [SQLite Plugin for Jekyll](https://github.com/captn3m0/jekyll-sqlite)

- The author has developed a Jekyll SQLite plugin to enhance data manipulation capabilities within Jekyll, a popular static site generator.
- This plugin allows users to perform SQL queries for data-wrangling, addressing limitations of Liquid, Jekyll's templating language, in handling complex data operations.
- The plugin has been successfully used in production for a year, demonstrated with the Northwind dataset, and the author invites feedback and suggestions for improvement.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42244987)

- A Jekyll SQLite plugin enables the use of SQLite as a data source in Jekyll, enhancing data manipulation capabilities with SQL.- It integrates Jekyll's Datafiles and Data Pages generator features, allowing for complex data handling beyond traditional CSV/JSON/YAML formats.- The plugin has been in production for a year, receiving positive feedback for making static site generation more dynamic and flexible.

## [Premature Graying of Hair: Review with Updates](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC6290285/)

- Premature graying of hair (PGH) is defined as graying before age 20 in Caucasians and before 30 in African Americans, impacting self-esteem.- The causes of PGH are not fully understood but are associated with aging disorders, autoimmune diseases, and oxidative stress, with factors like smoking and nutritional deficiencies contributing.- Common treatments for PGH include hair dyes and nutritional supplements, with studies indicating links between PGH and emotional factors, genetic predispositions, and environmental influences.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42241702)

- Premature graying of hair is associated with vitamin B12 deficiency, particularly in individuals with pernicious anemia, a condition where the body cannot absorb B12 properly.- Diagnosing B12 deficiency can be challenging as supplementation may artificially increase B12 levels, and some individuals cannot convert certain forms of B12 to active forms, leading to "paradoxical B12 deficiency."- Factors such as stress, genetics, and health conditions like autoimmune thyroidism also contribute to graying, and while some supplements may help, there is no proven method to reverse gray hair.

## [LLVM-powered devirtualization](https://blog.thalium.re/posts/llvm-powered-devirtualization/)

- The internship at Thalium focused on deobfuscating virtualized binaries using LLVM, a compiler framework, to make code more understandable, especially in the context of malware.- Virtualization, a strong obfuscation technique used by tools like Tigress and VMProtect, encodes programs into virtual instructions, making reverse engineering complex.- The project successfully used dynamic taint analysis to reconstruct the control flow graph of Tigress-obfuscated binaries, though it was limited to pure functions and single execution paths.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42245170)

- LLVM-powered devirtualization improves performance by optimizing virtual function calls, which are typically slower due to their dynamic nature.
- Bochs, a CPU emulator, can efficiently emulate a Pentium 4 processor on an i7, even bypassing virtual machine detectors.
- The Bochs debugger is particularly effective in analyzing and countering malware and code obfuscators, making it a valuable tool for security research.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Amazon S3 Adds Put-If-Match (Compare-and-Swap)" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Amazon%20S3%20Adds%20Put-If-Match%20(Compare-and-Swap)&subheading=Tuesday%2C%20November%2026%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
