---
slug: '/2024/11/30'
---

# 2024-11-30

## [What does this button do? – My new car has a mysterious and undocumented switch](https://blog.koenvh.nl/what-does-this-button-do-cm42u2oi7000a09l42f54g2pr)

- A 2020 Opel Corsa owner discovered a mysterious switch linked to a fleet tracking system, likely installed by the previous owner, a large company.
- The system functions as a GPS tracker and possibly an immobilizer, tracking the driver's movements and sending data to a fleet manager.
- The owner plans to remove the system due to privacy concerns, highlighting the issue of unknowingly driving with tracking devices.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42276620)

- A new car model features a switch linked to GPS and eSIM technology, raising privacy concerns as these features cannot be disabled, potentially enabling data collection and government surveillance.
- Some consumers prefer older cars to avoid privacy issues, as modern vehicles are often compared to "smartphones on wheels" due to their connectivity features.
- Privacy studies highlight significant concerns with new cars, though some brands offer options to opt out of data sharing, sparking ongoing debates about balancing technological advancements and privacy rights.

## [Breaking the 4Chan CAPTCHA](https://www.nullpt.rs/breaking-the-4chan-captcha)

- The project aimed to develop a machine learning model using TensorFlow to solve 4Chan CAPTCHAs with over 80% accuracy, ultimately achieving over 90% accuracy.
- The model utilized an LSTM CNN architecture with CTC encoding, trained on 500 hand-solved and 50,000 synthetic images, and was converted for browser use with TensorFlow.js.
- The project provided valuable insights into machine learning and computer vision, overcoming challenges like data collection, synthetic data generation, and compatibility issues.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42276865)

- 4Chan's CAPTCHA system has been compromised, showcasing the limitations of text-based CAPTCHAs as computers now surpass human capabilities in solving them.
- Despite their vulnerabilities, CAPTCHAs still play a role in increasing the cost of spamming, thus deterring some potential spammers.
- The ethical implications of CAPTCHA-breaking are debated, as it facilitates more spam and AI-generated content, affecting website owners and users, highlighting the need for more effective anti-spam solutions.

## [Geometric line-art of Wacław Szpakowski (2017)](https://www.theparisreview.org/blog/2017/02/15/rhythmical-lines/)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42277850)

- Geometric line-art by Wacław Szpakowski is gaining recognition for its complex designs, drawing comparisons to Op Art and artists like Bridget Riley and Bernard Cohen.- The art, which resembles mathematical patterns, is inspiring digital and generative art creators, highlighting its potential in modern digital platforms.- Discussions emphasize the historical significance of Szpakowski's work and its blend of math and art, with links to related art and exhibitions being shared.

## [Engineering Sleep](https://minjunes.ai/posts/sleep/index.html)

- Familial Natural Short Sleep (FNSS) is a condition where individuals can sleep less without adverse effects due to a genetic mutation, notably in the DEC2 gene affecting orexin levels.- Orexin plays a key role in sleep regulation, with imbalances leading to sleepiness or insomnia, and research is exploring FNSS replication through orexin agonists or gene therapy.- Despite its potential, FNSS remains under-researched, indicating a need for further studies to develop improved sleep engineering methods.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42279454)

- Familial Natural Short Sleep (FNSS) is a genetic mutation enabling individuals to sleep less without adverse effects, sparking interest in its potential benefits and risks.
- Concerns are raised about the long-term health impacts of reduced sleep, including a possible increased risk of dementia, despite some personal anecdotes of successful sleep optimization.
- The discussion also considers the evolutionary role of sleep, the potential for sleep biohacking, and societal implications, questioning whether reduced sleep needs are ultimately beneficial or harmful.

## [The Deterioration of Google](https://www.baldurbjarnason.com/2024/the-deterioration-of-google/)

- The closure of Giant Freakin Robot underscores the challenges faced by independent publishers, as many sites are shutting down due to decreased traffic from major platforms like Google and Facebook.- Google's machine learning system, designed to enhance search results, has unintentionally delisted numerous small sites, leading to financial difficulties for content creators.- The algorithm's complexity and Google's dominant market position contribute to the ongoing issue, leaving creators with limited alternatives and solutions.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42277673)

- The decline of Google is linked to its focus on advertising revenue over search quality, resulting in reduced innovation and vision.
- Users report a decline in the quality of services such as Google Maps and Google Docs, with no significant achievements from Google in recent years.
- The rise of Search Engine Optimization (SEO) and AI-generated content has complicated search results, prompting users to explore alternatives like Kagi and DuckDuckGo for better search experiences.

## [Sol-Ark manufacturer reportedly disables all Deye inverters in the US](https://solarboi.com/2024/11/17/sol-ark-oem-disables-all-deye-inverters-in-the-us/)

- Sol-Ark disabled all Deye inverters in the US, disrupting homeowners by intentionally bricking them with a message about regional restrictions.
- Sol-Ark, holding exclusive US sales rights, offered a discounted replacement program to affected customers, raising concerns about control and security of internet-connected solar inverters.
- The incident emphasizes the importance of selecting inverters with reliable support and secure networking to avoid similar disruptions, particularly with Chinese-manufactured products.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42279010)

- Sol-Ark allegedly disabled all Deye inverters in the US, sparking frustration over the dependency on internet-connected devices and cloud services.- Users express concerns about the reliance on cloud services for local devices, fearing potential future disruptions and advocating for local control.- The incident underscores the risks associated with cloud-dependent technology, prompting calls for improved consumer protection and alternative solutions.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="What does this button do? – My new car has a mysterious and undocumented switch" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=What%20does%20this%20button%20do%3F%20%E2%80%93%20My%20new%20car%20has%20a%20mysterious%20and%20undocumented%20switch&subheading=Saturday%2C%20November%2030%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
